# Predict The Readmission Rate of Diabetic Patients by Analyzing the Medical History Data
## 1. Introduction (Problem Description)
Diabetes is one of the most prevalent chronic diseases worldwide with around 537 million adults between the age of 20-79 suffering from it. According to a report released by CDC in January 2022, over 11.3% of the US population (37.3 million) have diabetes and over 38.0% of the adult US population have prediabetes. More than a quarter of hospital expenditures in the United States are incurred by patients with diabetes, and various research has pointed out that Diabetes is the most expensive chronic condition in the US. The total annual cost of diabetes is $327 Billion. That is, almost $1 out of every $4 in US health care costs is spent on caring for people with diabetes. It is worth noted that the total economic cost of diabetes rose 60% from 2007 to 2017.

However, what we are curious about is how to alleviate the burden. To tackle the growing economic costs of diabetes, apart from using the upstream approach to lower the risks of getting diabetes such as wholesome diet culture promotion, we will focus on building a prediction model to detect the possibility of patient readmission and reduce the hospital readmission rate. Though sometimes hospitals may make a net profit from readmission, improved outcomes are also an essential element in providing better quality healthcare.

Today, Statistics and Machine learning is increasingly being used in the field of medical advancement. Detecting diabetes in the early stage will help a patient to get better treatment and lifestyle. Therefore, in our project, we aim to build a machine learning model to predict patient re-admission to a hospital (within 30 days) with diabetic patient medical history data such as patient age, gender, race, admission time, inpatient, outpatient, etc. The ability to determine factors that lead to higher readmission in such patients, and correspondingly the ability to predict which patients will get readmitted to hospitals could help save millions of dollars while improving the quality of care.
## 2. Methodology
First, we attempted to do basic exploratory data analysis to analyze the dataset and see the distribution of various features. We were also able to gauge the discrepancies in the data such as missing values, outliers, redundant features and uncleaned data. With the help of data preprocessing and cleaning, we went ahead with building our model

For our project, we have used Na誰ve Bayes model and logistic regression to predict readmission. Na誰ve Bayes classifier is a probabilistic machine learning classifier based on Bayes theorem. Na誰ve Bayes assumes that all the predictors are independent of each other. While it is easy and faster to use, Na誰ve Bayes can only deal with numerical features and has its assumptions. Therefore, we have also used Logistic regression for prediction of readmission. This model attempts to draw a decision boundary to separate labels of different class. The output for classes is depicted by the probabilities and is computed using linear and sigmoid function. Logistic regression is simple to use and interpret, but it can only be used when the features are linearly separable.

In addition to the above two models, we have used other supervised machine learning models such as K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest and unsupervised machine learning models to do the classification. The performance of the models is evaluated using the conventional confusion matrix and ROC efficiency analysis. The final re-admission model is based on the best performing model as per the true positive rates and F1 score.
